and introduction to the book of Ecclesiastes.
King Solomon, who ruled over Israel from Jerusalem, wrote this book.
Ecclesiastes was completed many years into Solomon's reign,
but before his fall into idolatry.
Ecclesiastes contains twelve chapters.
In chapter one, Solomon discusses the futility of human activity.
In chapter two, he looks for meaning in life by evaluating his many pursuits.
Solomon writes that pursuing wealth and magnificent accomplishments
is like chasing after the wind.
Chapters 3-6 present observations by Solomon that help us cultivate godly wisdom.
He shows that there is an appointed time for everything.
He encourages hard work, and he extolls the benefits of friendship.
He refers to the enjoyment of food and the rejoicing over one's work as the gift of God.
Chapter 7-11 provide a sobering discussion of life in this world.
Solomon observes that life is short,
and that man needs to use his time, energy, and resources in the best way possible.
This will help him make a good name, a reputation with God.
Did you know?
Solomon alluded to the earth's water cycle centuries before scientists understood this process.
In chapter 12, he encourages young ones to make wise choices before the challenges of old age arrive.
Then he sums up all that he discussed with the words,
fear the true God, and keep his commandments.
For this is the whole obligation of man.
As you meditate on the book of Ecclesiastes,
note which pursuits are futile and which are worthwhile.
How godly wisdom helps us enjoy the gift of life,
and how cultivating a relationship with God leads to a truly meaningful life
under the rule of God's kingdom.